Vectorization and Other Speed Ups
Total points 4
1.
Question 1
Which of the following statements is false?


1 / 1 point

A vector command is an operator or function that works on an entire vector or array.



Vectorization is an automated process carried out by the MATLAB environment.



The advantages of implicit looping includes better performance and simpler, cleaner code. 


Correct - 
2.
Question 2
An input argument to a MATLAB function


1 / 1 point

is passed by reference resulting in efficient code automatically.



is always copied on the stack, so care must be taken not to pass large variables to functions.



is passed by value from the user's point of view, but it may passed by reference in reality for efficiency unless the code inside the function changes its value.


Correct
3.
Question 3
What can we do to make sure our program is efficient when preallocation of a matrix is not possible?


1 / 1 point

Allocate a big array and hope it is large enough.



Nothing.



Keep in mind that MATLAB stores arrays in column major order and write our code so that the number of array reallocation and copying is minimized.


Correct
4.
Question 4
Which of the following is false?


1 / 1 point

The command parfor stands for parallel for.



Any for loop can use parfor instead, if our computer has multiple cores.



The command parfor can only be used if different iterations of the body of the loop are independent of each other. 



MATLAB does not guarantee the order of different iterations of the body of a parfor loop.


Correct



1. Vectorization is an automated process carried out by the MATLAB environment.
2. is passed by value from the user's point of view, but it may passed by reference in reality for efficiency unless the code inside the function changes its value.
3. Keep in mind that MATLAB stores arrays in column major order and write our code so that the number of array reallocation and copying is minimized.
4. Any for loop can use parfor instead, if our computer has multiple cores.
