* balance sheet  : fin position

asset = liability + stock holder's equity

* final date of each period
* current status - not for period of time - unlike other stats
* multiple corp - comparative statements, consolidated ones

asset : donation, purchase, future value(currency), unexpired expesnse

current assets, inv, prop, plant, equip, intangible asset, other


manufacture inventory  :raw materials in hand, work in process inv, finished goods inventory


long term assets : investments, prop,plant, equip, intangible


land : not depriciated

accumulated depreciation : cumulative depreciation amount


goodwill : buy another business(4M for 5M -> extra 1M is goodwill)


current liability : short term loans ,it tax, accounts payable, deffered values, current portion of long term debt


any tax not yet paid is a liability


long term liabilities : 

	1. notes payable - signed promissory note
	2. bond - pay interest
	
deferred income tax : 
	1. due to different tax rules
	2. gaas - allows certain depreciation practices
	3. ira - require use of methods diff from gaap
	
so tax expense mismatch with tax paid


deferred income tax asset/ liability  :overpaid / owes


balance sheet and income statements connected : 
	1. gain inc means - retained earning inc - equity inc
	2. exp inc loss - asset dec(sold) - equity dec
	


final review : 
	1. compare with prev balance sheets
	2. cash and cash eq - match with bank recociliation
	3. accounts receivable - bad expense
	4. inventory cost of goods
	5. prepaid expenses - adjusting entries
	
	


fin position : 

	1. working capital = asset - liability
	2. current ratio = asset / liab
	3. quick ratio = same as current ratio(inventory and prepaid exp removed from assets)
	4. receivables turn over rato = sales on credit / receivable
	5. inventory turn over ratio = cost of goods / cost of inventory
	
1. debt to equity ratio (debt - cuurent +longterm liab) / equity

2. debt to total assets ratio


for money/ other issues common stock : 
	1. adv : more money(equity) -allow add loans
	2. disadv : dilute existing ownership 
	
for bonds : 
	1. adv : it return low interest no diluation on ownership
	2. increase liabilities
	
	

limitations of balance sheet : 
	1. cost principle - trademarks... not asset(internally developed)
	
but : purchases a brandname - reported in balance sheet
created - won't be recorded in balance sheet





