working capital - current asset - current liability

liquidity : money to pay due(convert asset to  cash)



Amount of working capital
Current ratio
Quick ratio
Accounts receivable turnover ratio
Average collection period
Inventory turnover ratio
Days' sales in inventory
Cash from operating activities
Operating cash flow ratio



why customer not paying ?  (question and solve)


operating cycle  :
	1. average amount of time - put in business op and make back into cash account
	
inventory ---> receivable(120 days)----> cash(45 d)

operating cycle = 165 days



working capital : 
	1. employee, creditor relationship
	2. loan agreement
	3. excellent credit rating maintaining
	
slow moving inventory -> high operation cycle -> low working capital - influence profitability


long term asset buying - reduces working capital



say company won't able to pay 
 	1. suppliers -concerned
 	2. ability to pay by converting asset to money
 	
 	
amount receivable - cautious - loss of both capial and liquidity



amount receivable turn over ratio = net credit sales / avg balance in account receivables


some precautions using annual fin statement values  : 
	1. things may changed - use current values
	2. cuurent values- no for outsiders
	3. highly summarized, unusual transactions
	4. total sales - no info on cash ? debit card ? ....
	5. many companies close account -slow time of business
	

aging of account receivables : 
	1. 1-30 days due - longer due - less likely to be collected
	
cash discount for early payment : 
	1. 10% for net 30
	
credit card - decreases risk of non payment





Inventory turnover ratio = cost of goods sold / average inv cost during that year

1 yr period - not accurate, maintained 3 yr period - reported in 3 yr fin stateemnts


take more points - take average -> better result



day's sales in inventory : 

	* inventory to receivable time
	
say inventory turn over ratio = 3.2

365 / 3.2 = 114(in average needed to sell average amount of inventory during the year)


instead of inventory we can do that for each item


https://www.accountingcoach.com/working-capital/explanation/5



operating cash flow ratio = net cash from op act / avg current liability



Reasons Why Liquidity Will Decrease
Below are some reasons why a company's liquidity can decrease. They are organized according to the format of the statement of cash flows.

Operating activities
Net loss from the business operations
Accounts receivable increased
Inventory increased
Prepaid expenses increased
Accounts payable decreased

Investing activities
Capital expenditures (purchase of equipment, etc.)
Purchase of long-term investments

Financing activities
Repayment of short-term and long-term debt
Declaring dividends for stockholders
Purchase of treasury stock
Sole proprietor's or partners' draws

Since the above items will have an unfavorable or negative effect on a company's liquidity, the respective amounts will appear on the SCF in parentheses.

Confused? Send Feedback
Reasons Why Liquidity Will Increase
Below are some reasons associated with an increase in a company's cash and liquidity. The reasons are arranged according to the format of the statement of cash flows.

Operating activities
Net income from the business operations
Accounts receivable decreased
Inventory decreased
Prepaid expenses decreased
Accounts payable increased

Investing activities
Proceeds from the sale of assets used in the business
Proceeds from the sale of long-term investments

Financing activities
Short-term and long-term borrowings
Proceeds from issuing shares of common and preferred stock
Proceeds from sale of treasury stock

Since the above items will have a favorable or positive effect on a company's liquidity, their amounts will appear on the statement of cash flows as positive amounts.








