gaap - us body govern accounting standards



Economic entity  :

	1. accountant can keep the business transactions and personal transactions seperate
	2. financial statements of group of seperate corp can be maintained by one corp (group of commonly)
	

monetary unit assumption : 

	1. accountants - express assets as dollars(assume : purchasing power won't lose)

so combine  : 10k spent in 1960
			  300k spent in 2021 (same kind land)
balanced sheet : 310 k combined


time period assumptions : 

	months, quarters, years - report depreciation exp, property tax, insurance
	
	
cost principle  :

	* record all transactions in cash
	* so trademarks, talented team, unique domain names, search engine rankings - won't be recorded
	
Full disclosure principle : 
	 
	 * provide sufficient info - intelligent user can make an informed decision - financial statements
	 

Revenue recognition : 

	* record when earned
	
Matching principle : 

	* report exp on income statement - cause and effect relationship (sells 5000 units of x - report cost of sales on the same income statement as sales revenue)
	* report with cp used up - 10 yr life at expense rate 1000 per month
	
	
Materiality : 
	* large companies - immediately expense instead of depreciating for 5 yrs
	* materiality - allows mid size companies - report fin statement to the nearest thousand dollars
	
	
conservatism : 
	* company has two acceptable ways to record a transaction - choose one results in less net income / smaller asset amount.
	* objective, doubt - break tie choose less
	

consistent and comparability : 
	* apply accounting principles, procedures, practices - period to period
	* change is justified- change (disclose reason in fin statement)
	* compare fin statement bw two companies - use generally accepted ones
	

relevance and timeliness, unbiased, reliable




Distributin fin statements : 

	1. single statement - no enough analyze - fin affairs
	
income statement, statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of owner's equity, statement of cash flow, notes to fin statement


notes = references on each fin statement


accrual method :  

	1. before getting paid but earned
	2. customer pay - cash sales
	3. advance
(accrue revenue - receivables)
(defer revenues - liabilities)


expenses recorded in income statement : 

	1. cost of goods, sales, services
	2. expired or used up
	3. no future economic benefit - ad, office salary, research
	
	
assets, liabilities, equity of stock holder reported in balance sheet


notes to fin statements : 

	1. summary of policies
	2. leases
	3. income taxes
	4. employee benefit plans
	5. stock options
	6. commitments and contingencies
	
	


		






















